---
title: Week 5
layout: post
description: null
image: null
open_blog: true
suburl: "2023/07/06/week_05.html"
---

**Starting Phase 2**
.... Hello everyone, hope this blog finds you well.

Last week I could get my 2nd Pull Request merged in. Alongside I also gave a brief introduction about phase 2. In this phase I'll be making some improvements in the codebase like adding more useful methods to the `TransferFunction` and `TransferFunctionMatrix` classes and enhancing the design to improve user-friendliness.

**Aim :**

My purpose this week was to investigate the `control/lti.py` file and find potential areas of improvement. Once I completed an entire sluething I wanted to raise issues, so that we can discuss upon them as a community. Eventually I'll be fixing those issues in the upcoming week as this week I patiently await to get clarity on the expected results.

These are the issues I have opened up. Kindly comment on them if you are interested in the project !

1. [Refactoring Control Plots: Replace Numerical methods with Algebraic methods as much as possible](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/25304)
2. [How should division of Transfer Functions be handled](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/25308)
3. [How should subs() be handled for Transfer Functions](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/25315)
4. [Restrict Inputs to only valid Transfer Functions](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/25326)

**Work : Let us go through the Issues in brief.**

1. `Refactoring Control Plots: `\
   This issue addresses this [comment](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/25251#issuecomment-1611894147). Right now all plots in the control module use numerical methods from     Numpy. We need to replace the current methods with algebraic methods from SymPy under `GSOC 1.4` work.
    
2. `Division of Transfer Functions: `\
   The `/` operator does not work for transfer functions as of now.
   
   Relevant control algebra packages handle it as follows:

   **MATLAB**
   ```
   >> tf1 = tf([1],[1 1])
   >> tf2 = tf([2],[1 1])
   >> tf = tf1/tf2
   
   tf =
    
      s + 1
     -------
     2 s + 2
   ```
   
   **Python-control**
   ```
   >>> tf1 = control.TransferFunction([1],[1,1])
   >>> tf2 = control.TransferFunction([2],[1,1])
   >>> print(tf1/tf2)
   
    s + 1
   -------
   2 s + 2
   ```

3. `Substitution of Transfer Functions: `\
   Right now, `.subs()` does not work with `TransferFunction` and `TransferFunction` Matrix class.

   Some control packages support the direct substitution:
   
   **MATLAB**
   ```
   >> t = tf([1 3],[1 1 1 1])
   >> value = evalfr(t, 2);
   >> value
       0.3333
   ```
   **Python-control**
   ```
   >>> tf = control.TransferFunction([1,3], [1,1,1,1])
   >>> substituted_tf = control.evalfr(tf, 2)               # Same name, a coincidence :)
   >>> substituted_tf
   (0.3333333333333333+0j)
   ```

4. `Check validity of Transfer Functions: `\
   Right now the `TransferFunction` class allows any expression to be input as a transfer function.

   I think we could do it like MATLAB (only allow time delay when a delay argument is given) - 
   ```
   >> G = tf([1],[1 10],'InputDelay',2.1)
   
   G =
                     1
     exp(-2.1*s) * ------
                   s + 10
   ```
   Otherwise catch if not polynomial with something like this - 
   ```
   +        if (num.is_polynomial(var) is not True or den.is_polynomial(var) is not True):
   +            raise TypeError("Numerator and Denominator of TransferFunction must be a polynomial")
   ```

**Future Work :**
In this upcoming week I would be opening up pull requests to address the issues I have opened this week. It is crutial to discuss ideas on these issues, so that I have clarity on my future Pull Requests. A challenge which still exists is the completion of the GSOC 1.2 Pull Request regarding the Root Locus plot.
