---
title: Week 13
layout: post
description: null
image: null
open_blog: true
suburl: "2023/09/07/week_13.html"
---
**Final evaluations approaching :)**
.... Hello everyone, hope this blog finds you well.

From now I have 2 weeks remaining in Google Summer Of Code'23. Implementation of the State Space Model is finished. This week I focused on how operators interact with the State Space class.

**Aim :**

This week I made some comments towards the **State Space model**. It can be viewed [here](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/25473). 
I also opened up an [issue](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/25635) - **Planner on future implementations in the State Space Class**.

**Work : Let us go through the Pull Requests in brief.**
1. Addition and Multiplication :
   ```
   >>> from sympy import Matrix
   >>> from sympy.physics.control import StateSpace
   >>> A1 = Matrix([[1]])
   >>> B1 = Matrix([[2]])
   >>> C1 = Matrix([[-1]])
   >>> D1 = Matrix([[-2]])
   >>> A2 = Matrix([[-1]])
   >>> B2 = Matrix([[-2]])
   >>> C2 = Matrix([[1]])
   >>> D2 = Matrix([[2]])
   >>> ss1 = StateSpace(A1, B1, C1, D1)
   >>> ss2 = StateSpace(A2, B2, C2, D2)
   >>> ss1 + ss2
   StateSpace(Matrix([
   [1,  0],
   [0, -1]]), Matrix([
   [ 2],
   [-2]]), Matrix([[-1, 1]]), Matrix([[0]]))
   
   >>> A = Matrix([[-5, -1], [3, -1]])
   >>> B = Matrix([2, 5])
   >>> C = Matrix([[1, 2]])
   >>> D = Matrix([0])
   >>> ss = StateSpace(A, B, C, D)
   >>> ss*5
   StateSpace(Matrix([
   [-5, -1],
   [ 3, -1]]), Matrix([
   [2],
   [5]]), Matrix([[5, 10]]), Matrix([[0]]))
   ```
2. Future Implementations in the State Space Class :

   Make the class more feature rich -
   - [ ] Solve examples mentioned in https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/25502 and add them to the `control_problems` file . The required functionality is already supported in the pull request.
   - [ ] Add a symbolic solver (and a numeric solver if required) with the help of the ODE module to solve `x' = Ax + Bu` form. 
   - [ ] Read about Laub's or Horner's method to evaluate system transfer function at complex frequency. This will be the equivalent of `eval_frequency` for Transfer Functions.
   - [ ] Add Feedback interconnection between 2 state space LTI systems.
   - [ ] Other features can be picked up on comparison with `MATLAB` and `python-control`.
   
   Extension of the class (long term)
   - [ ] Allow the argument `dt` to create a discrete time model following the completion of continuous time model. It will be nice if we could support this for both `Transfer Function` model and `State Space` model.
   

**Future Work :**
Now, the pull request and issues are completed from my end. I am waiting for the maintainers to suggest suitable improvements so that it can be merged soon. \
The next week I will have my minor exams at university so I won't be able to do too much work. \
Following week will be my last official active week for Google Summer Of Code. It has been an amazing journey with a few final touches remaining.
