---
title: Week 1
layout: post
description: null
image: null
just_me: true
suburl: "2024/06/03/week_01.html"
---
**Let's Start Coding**
.... Hello everyone, hope this blog finds you well.

As the coding period of **Google Summer Of Code'24** commenced on May 27th, I have also parallely started my work for Week 1.

**Aim :**

My purpose for this week was to discuss and concretize the structure of the project. I needed to go through [xtensor](https://xtensor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) documentation in detail and validate using it as a backend for implementing the **numpy** module. It was an eventful week involving some research, discussing issues with my mentors and interacting with developers from the xtensor-stack community.

**Work :**

This week I corrected the project file structure first. We had already linked a [branch](https://github.com/pocketpy/pocketpy/tree/9bb19f4c9cf19159a9486281d20a55f25362d1d2) of pocketpy while initializing the repository on github. I missed that with git clone because git treats it as a submodule, which needs to be manually updated. Once I cloned the linked branch, we no longer needed the pocketpy header added in [PR#2](https://github.com/pocketpy/gsoc-2024-dev/pull/2). This realization saved me from adding about 17k lines of unnecessary code. \
I made the following Pull Requests for this task :
- Commit [225accb](https://github.com/pocketpy/gsoc-2024-dev/commit/225accb510656633584e167fd83ccff27460ffb9) -  Update README.md
- PR [#3](https://github.com/pocketpy/gsoc-2024-dev/pull/3) - Modify the Numpy project file structure.

Following that I worked on making a `ndarray` wrapper for pocketpy on `xarray`, a well defined xtensor container. \
I made the following Pull Request for this task :
- PR [#4](https://github.com/pocketpy/gsoc-2024-dev/pull/4) - Add ndarray implementation to numpy.hpp using xtensor support.

Let us go through this Pull Request in breif - 

- **Plan to support all dtypes and corresponding precision types** : As you would be aware that numpy has multiple numerical dtypes and each of those types has a set of precision types. Supporting all these types is essential for our module. But since we are writing code in C++, we don't have the precision types at hand and have to design them using existing C++ types. For that I used the **cstdint** library. It's header is a type support library header, providing fixed width integer types and part of C numeric limits interface.

  As you can see in the code we could support all the the following numpy dtypes.
```
    include <cstdint>

    using int8 = int8_t;
    using int16 = int16_t;
    using int32 = int32_t;
    using int64 = int64_t;
    using uint8 = uint8_t;
    using uint16 = uint16_t;
    using uint32 = uint32_t;
    using uint64 = uint64_t;
    using int_ = int32;
    using float32 = float;
    using float64 = double;
    using float_ = float64;
    using bool_ = bool;
    using complex64 = std::complex<float32>;
    using complex128 = std::complex<float64>;
    using complex_ = complex128;
    using string = std::string;
```
- **Constructor for our ndarray class** : So through this Pull Request we are able to map **xtensor xarray** to **pocketpy ndarray** as \
  `xt::xarray<int> arr = {% raw %}{{1, 2}, {3, 4}}{% endraw %};` to `pkpy::ndarray<int> arr {% raw %}{{1, 2}, {3, 4}}{% endraw %};`

  `xtensor` allows initialization of containers upto 5 dimensional arrays. That is a great advantage we have over using `NumCpp` which was targeted earlier. I have 
- **Implementing numpy routines** : I used the [numpy.pyi](https://github.com/pocketpy/gsoc-2024-dev/blob/main/numpy/numpy.pyi) typing file as inspiration here.\
  As of now I have added the following categories in the `numpy.hpp` file.
  1. Dunder methods.
  2. Properties. 
  3. Member methods. \
     a. Boolean Operations \
     b. Aggregation \
     c. Shape Manipulation \
     d. Seaching and Sorting \
     e. Miscellaneous 
     
  4. Factory functions. \
     a. Array Creation \
     b. Trigonometry \
     c. Exponentiation \
     d. Miscellaneous

**Future Work :**
In the upcoming week, I would like to get this pull request merged after thorough discussion with my mentors.
